mystery box. But we all talk about it kind of like all of these other steps.
And then drying is pretty straightforward too. You have some
wet parchment, their sun comes in, and then you have dry parchment. Like it's a
very straightforward step. And roasting is very complicated, but we
still have a pretty good handle. If you put in some green coffee,
you apply heat, we get this brown stuff on the other side.
Like we have a pretty good handle of all of these steps except fermentation.
Fermentation for so many people still feels like this black mystery box.
And yet we talk about it like all of the other steps.
So I think it's just kind of keeping in mind what
the place that this has and what we mean by it.
This is a mill that I worked at in Rwanda.
So this is also to give you an idea of scale.
So what we're going to be doing today is in a really small scale.
You saw the tank.
The tank that we're floating in is a tank that we're going to be fermenting in.
But we can also do the same process in this larger size, in these tanks.
A big part of it is mixing.
So being able to get in the tank and move the coffee and being able to get all of that contact.
We talked about why we do submerged. We'll talk a little bit more about that later on.
But that's also very important.
And then you'll also see, we have to cover it.
So this is important for me in these larger beneficios, and we'll cover it here too.
Not because I want to keep an anaerobic environment and keep the air out necessarily,
but this is a big tank and it's all outside.
So whatever's flying in, whatever birds or insects or animals or lizards or whatever,
we definitely don't want that in our tank.
So this is another kind of going back to the idea that we all talk about
fermentation but we're not talking about the same things. We're not kind of coming
from the same point of view. So the traditional point of a fermentation was
mechanical. It was just a function. All I want my fermentation to do is remove my
mucilage. And so many people who talk about fermentation, this is what they
mean. And so when you tell them that you want an extended fermentation, it's very
confusing because the way that we're using it in specialty is okay now it's
not traditional it's innovative it's not a mechanical function it's a biological
function these these microbes are alive and I'm not doing it to remove mucilage
I'm doing it for flavor so we have these very different intentions for
fermentation and we're all using the same word and we're all trying to
communicate and I've just found a lot of friction in trying to use this one word
to talk to all of these different kind of backgrounds and all of these
different type of goals.
So Cecil is sharing that for in Jamaica for it to be considered Blue Mountain coffee,
for it to have that designation, that label, it had to be grown above 1500 meters.
It had to be one variety, Tipica, and it needed to be fermented.
But when they say fermented, they just needed the mucilage to be removed that way.
It's like a washed coffee, not a natural.
So this was put as like a bar, as a barrier.
And that happens a lot in the wine world as well, where having these like
restrictions, it can only be this variety, it can only have this name, you must have
you know 25 days of skin contact, really helps a region have a name and really
gets on that reputation, but it can be really frustrating for producers because
you can't break out of that. In a lot of regions in, well in Bordeaux and in
Burgundy, they have to cap the amount of wine that they make. They need to
keep it scarce, they need to keep it special. So if as a producer you can
produce more, you are not allowed to. Because then it would dilute like the
specialness of the whole region and you need to stay in line. So in you know
initially there's a lot of benefits to having that recognition and then there's
also these like handcuffs that come with it where you can't plant another variety.
It can't be anything else. Like we've set these parameters and you must stay at
this box. So that's tough.
So I want people to kind of broaden their idea of fermentation to think about intention.
What are you doing what you're doing?
So if you would, so the traditional, I call that microbial demucilagination, not because
I want this clunky name to take on, but because I want to differentiate between fermentation,
like microbe function that was just to remove the mucilage and fermentation that has intention,
I'm adding a specific micro because I want a fruity profile. I'm doing this on purpose versus I'm just
letting like removing the mucilage and moving on and then there's another one that I don't think we talked about enough which is
Decomposition which is brought. It's like just the doing nothing. It's just the letting the coffee sit in the bags
and
Yes, these are all technically fermentation
Microbial de-mucilagination, a raw ease of fermentation.
But I believe that we should elevate the term fermentation
to only talk about things that we're doing with intention,
not things that are just being neglected
or things that we don't really want
the function of fermentation.
We don't want to add flavors,
we don't want to add different general coffee,
we just want to remove the mucilage.
This, where are we?
We're almost at five.
This is where the Spanish class stopped.
are a very chatty bunch. You guys aren't asking as many questions. How do you feel? I'm willing,
we can take a break if this is a lot or we can move a little bit forward. Let's go a little
bit more. How about we go to 530? Let's go to 530. Yeah, okay. Yeah, so this is what I talk
about when I mean fermentation with intention, meaning that we have all of these products,
you know, grapes and cacao and milk and that we can turn into something else. And so we think,
okay, where does flavor come from? And flavor is both processing, like how we get there,
and the microbes that we took to get there. So one of the issues that I have with coffee is that
too often we only think about the process. We think the flavor of naturals comes because I
put it on a raised bed, or the flavor of wash comes because I put it in a tank with water.
And we're only looking at the physical processing, and we're not thinking about what microbes
are present in that process.
So it's a combination of both as to how we get these flavors.
And then this is just, you know, identifying the actual microbes that give the majority
of the flavor to the products that we love.
So we'll go more into these later.
I bring up cacao because cacao and coffee are really like lumped together very frequently.
They're grown in the same places and there's also fermentation in cacao.
But one thing I want to point out is that cacao is very different from coffee, the same
way that coffee is very different from wine, because the actual seed in cacao is fermented.
The inside of the seed is transformed.
It changes.
We can see as it starts out very purple and it's getting more brown.
So there is a transformation to the inner meat of the seed.
In coffee there's not.
In coffee, we are fermenting the mucilage on the outside and then hoping that some of
that, those components get into the seed.
But the seed itself is relatively unchanged.
It is not, we're not fermenting the product that we are drinking.
wine. In all of these other products, the grapes, the grape juice turns into the wine that we drink,
right? The cacao actually does become the chocolate. These things are fermented and then we consume
them. In coffee, the fermentation is like adjacent, it's secondary. It's not the most important thing
and I think this is where I have the most trouble, where like this is my field of work and it's
fascinating but it's also like not that big of a deal, like it's not that influential.
And so I've had to like, you know, kind of like temper people's expectation where it's like,
this is great, but also calm down. Because like drying is really important and selection and
variety like fermentation is this like small step in coffee, like in everything else. If we didn't
have a fermentation, we would never get wine, grapes would never become wine without fermentation.
We have wonderful coffee without fermentation. Fermentation is completely unnecessary.
and superfluous, but also really fun.
So like keeping that in context,
like so many people now,
I see so much emphasis on fermentation,
and I feel like it's very unbalanced
because it's something that happens for a few hours,
24 hours, 36 hours, even a 50 hour fermentation, okay.
But you should be drying your coffee very well.
And that, like what you do over three weeks
has much more of an impact
than what we're doing for 24 hours.
So just keep that in mind.
So yeah, cacao, the actual meat gets changed.
You can have unfermented cacao, but that's usually not consumed.
That's usually used for like extracts and cosmetics and like other products.
I don't think unfermented cacao, yeah.
They started making it.
Oh, they started making it?
In Brazil, it's called ruby chocolate.
Ruby chocolate.
And it's very sweet.
They sweeten the crap out of it, because otherwise it's really like a stringent,
I'm a bitter of course, but yeah, they, uh, a melter, I think it's XOXO, like the gourmet brand that's sold in the United States.
They call it "Ring of Chocolate," but it's this color.
It's pink and has more ice cream.
It's pink.
Yes.
And why did they do that?
What's that?
Why did they decide to do unfermented?
I have no idea.
Well, there's a certain percentage that doesn't ferment.
There's just some fermentations that don't go.
So I wonder if it's a way for them
to recuperate some of those beans that would otherwise
get wasted or kind of flipping this defect.
But I don't see any benefit to not fermenting
when you could in cacahuas.
Fermented cacahuas are delicious.
[INAUDIBLE]
It's delicious, actually.
Yeah.
So it's like--
marketing novelty yeah i guess novelty
yeah
oh section two never mind let's just end there
yeah let's end here we'll we did section one and we'll do this tomorrow morning
so i think dinner is anybody here
dinner might be at 6 30 so i think we have an hour